almost every fairy mammal shakes their
body when they get wet we've only
recently discovered how effective this
actually is I did interview one of the
guys who actually was in part of the
study Andrew Dickerson from Georgia Tech
and he looked at sixteen different
species of furry mammal from small mice
all the way up to bears and found they
all shake at different frequencies
depending on their size to maximize the
amount of water actually coming off
their fur so we're going to put a few
classic animals to the test and find out
what frequency they shake at so this
adorable thing is an African pygmy
hedgehog so what we're hoping to do
today is get them a little bit wet in a
shower is that gonna be right for them
water doesn't hurt anybody and a bit of
a cleanse in between those quills is
always going to be a good thing well I
think we should just give it a go
there's no rule to hardly coming on
what's going on
hedgehogs a really good temperature
regulators just by increasing their
oxygen uptake by breathing heavier and
getting their metabolism up so maybe
it's just normally drawing off through
that way it's not used to having to
shake so much now we have our next
contestant the rat this is Coco because
the Hedgehog wasn't that impressive
refer honest it's a bit of a letdown I'm
hoping Coco is going to shine for us
it's a lot better than the Hedgehog yeah
it's such a sort of simple action but in
slow-mo it's just looks incredible you
realize what's going on I mean I didn't
even see that happen well because
there's one of these smaller mammals
it's got to spin a bit faster to
generate the same kind of forces to get
the water off its fur he's up next then
I think we've got to go for the classic
a 9 you know if you take this dog for
example they shake about four or five
times a second getting rid of 70% of the
water on their body in just four seconds
I mean that's why dogs are the king of
the shakes that is amazing he's like he
cares a whole 118 isn't he this is
partly why they've got such great loose
skin is that when they shape they really
get a lot of speed on that fur and so
the amount of force they're generating
to get the water off their fur and
getting the dry is actually really high
what about people people are actually
really bad shakers they can get about
two hurts only two shakes a second
that's not very good it's not very good
but sorry I think he's throwing down the
gauntlet I reckon you can do better
that's amazing
that was about four or five times a
second I'm afraid I'm not sure you've
surpassed the I'm not very good at
shaking it scene yeah I think as Manuel
shakes go dogs are karna winning we
really hope you've enjoyed today's
edition of slow moan the wet man will
shakedown so please feel free to check
out any of our other videos on earth
unplugged and subscribe and if you can
think of anything else they'll do a
better shake let us know in the comments
below
cat vs. dog we're gonna see which ones
have better drinker
the count was interest hold water
through the air in accountant the cat
was you know delicate the dog was raw
and just drawing in all that water